# Themes

## How you can use themes to customize core functionality?

You can change the layout, skin and blocks of the website.

## How can you implement different designs for different stores using Magento themes?

**Example:**

Website -> Store ->
- 1. English Store
- 2. French Store

So you would have a package called "batman" and a theme called "default".
This extends from base/default (in 1.8)

You also have a theme called "returns"

So for 1.8 (exam currently used) you would add everything into batman/default.

Then any changes you needed for the 2nd theme which you use on the French store you would add to "returns" theme.

You could also have both sites running off batman/default but specify a different part to use in "returns":

1. Translations
2. Templates
3. Skin
4. Layout
5. Default (Theme)

Also if you needed different design for category, product and CMS pages thats possible too.

## In which two ways you can register custom theme?

- System -> Configuration -> Design
- System -> Design for seasonal design like Christmas


## What is the difference between package and theme?

Package is a placeholder for multiple themes.

## What happens if the requested file is missed in your theme/package?

It will look in the parent theme (default) and then base/default.
In 1.9 (not part of the exam) it will keep looking in parent themes which could be a lot more than 2.

## Which kind of paths (absolute or relative) does Magento use for templates and layout files?

Uses relative.


## How exactly can Magento define which physical file correspond to certain template/layout to use?

Mage_Core_Model_Design_Package
  ->getLayoutFilename()
  ->getTemplateFilename()

Both methods call getFilename($file, $params = array());


## Which classes and methods need to be rewritten in order to add additional directories to the fallback list?

Mage_Core_Model_Design_Fallback->getFallbackScheme();
Mage_Core_Model_Design_Package->_fallback();
Mage_Core_Model_Design_Package->getFilename();
Mage_Core_Model_Design_Package->getSkinUrl();
