# Blocks

## What are blocks used for in Magento?
To output data

## What is the parent block for all Magento blocks?

Mage_Core_Block_Abstract

## Which class does each block that uses a template extend?

Mage_Core_Block_Template


## In which way does a template block store information about its template file? Does it store an absolute or a relative path to the template?

Absolute.

## What is the role of the Mage_Core_Block_Abstract class?

- add helper methods
- getChildHtml() to get Child block
- toHtml() to generate output
- \_beforeToHtml() method before its rendered
- \_toHtml() method to allow blocks output HTML
- Cache Blocks

## Can any block in Magento use a template file?
Only those which extend from Mage_Core_Block_Template or Mage_Core_Block_Abstract

## How does the $this variable work inside the template file?
It references the block class

## Is it possible to render a template without a block in Magento?
No.

## Is it possible to have a block without a template in Magento?
Yes in theory you could output HTML in \_toHtml() method.

## Which class is responsible for creating an instance of the block?

Mage_Core_Model_Layout

## Which class is responsible for figuring out which blocks should be created for certain pages?

Mage_Core_Model_Layout_Update

Check out asSimpleXml() method and loadLayout() method in Mage_Core_Model_Layout


## How is the tree of blocks typically rendered?

From the root downwards through the child HTML.

## Is it possible to create an instance of the block and render it on the page without using the Magento layout?

Mage_Core_Model_Layout->createBlock() method e.g. $this->getLayout()->createBlock('core/template', 'my_block_name');

## Is it possible to create an instance of the block and add it to the current layout manually?

Yes.

## How are a block’s children rendered? Once you added a child to the block, can you expect it will be rendered automatically?

No it needs to be called by $this->getChildHtml('name');

## What is a difference in rendering process for different types of blocks?

Mage_Core_Block_Text outputs the text set in the method setText.
Mage_Core_Block_Template outputs the template set in construct or setTemplate method.
Mage_Core_Block_Text_List outputs the child blocks.


      class Mage_Core_Block_Text_List extends Mage_Core_Block_Text
      {
          protected function \_toHtml()
          {
              $this->setText('');
              foreach ($this->getSortedChildren() as $name) {
                  $block = $this->getLayout()->getBlock($name);
                  if (!$block) {
                      Mage::throwException(Mage::helper('core')->\__('Invalid block: %s', $name));
                  }
                  $this->addText($block->toHtml());
              }
              return parent::\_toHtml();
          }
      }


## How can block output be caught using an observer?

    Mage::dispatchEvent('core_block_abstract_to_html_after',array('block' => $this, 'transport' => self::$\_transportObject));
    $html = self::$\_transportObject->getHtml();


## What events do Mage_Core_Block_Abstract and Mage_Core_Block_Template fire?

### 1. Before/After Layout Object is set

    Mage::dispatchEvent('core_block_abstract_prepare_layout_before', array('block' => $this));
    Mage::dispatchEvent('core_block_abstract_prepare_layout_after', array('block' => $this));

### 2. Before Block is Rendered

    Mage::dispatchEvent('core_block_abstract_to_html_before', array('block' => $this));

### 3. After Block is Rendered before returning HTML

    Mage::dispatchEvent('core_block_abstract_to_html_after', array('block' => $this, 'transport' => self::$\_transportObject));

**Note::** $\__transportObject is returned by calling is getHtml() method.


### What is the purpose of each of the following block types:

- **Mage_Core_Block_Template** - To output a template.
- **Mage_Core_Block_Text_List** - To output an array of child blocks
- **Mage_Core_Block_Text** - To output text

### Which block type renders its children automatically?

Mage_Core_Block_Text_List

### Which block type is usually used for a “content” block on Magento pages?

Mage_Core_Block_Text_List

### How can a template’s block instance be accessed inside the template file, and how can other block instances be accessed?

    $this->getChildHtml();

### How can block instances be accessed from the controller?

    $this->getLayout()->getBlock('name');

### How can block instances be accessed inside install scripts or other model class instances?

    Mage::app()->getLayout()->getBlock('name');


### In which ways can block output be disabled in Magento?

    <remove name="name" />

or you could reference the parent block

    <reference name="parent">
      <action method="unsetChild">
          <name>name</name>
      </action>
    </reference>


### Which method can be overridden to control block output?

\_toHtml()
\_afterToHtml()

### In which method are templates rendered?

Mage_Core_Block_Abstract->toHtml();

# Which classes are responsible for figuring out the absolute path for including the template file?

Mage_Core_Block_Template->getTemplateFile();


### Which class performs rendering of the template?

Mage_Core_Block_Template->fetchView();

### How can output buffering be enabled/disabled when templates are rendered?

Mage_Core_Model_Layout::setDirectOuput(true)
