# Modify and adjust price generation for products (for example, during integration of third-party software):

# 1. Change Price

Please read [Create Product Type notes](https://github.com/colinmurphy/magento-exam-notes/blob/master/7.%20Catalog/%201.%20Product%20Types/2.%20Create%20Product%20Type.md#L1) for more information on how to change price.

You can also ajust the price for existing products by:

- Adding an observer for **catalog_product_get_final_price**. See [Add An Observer](https://github.com/colinmurphy/magento-exam-notes/blob/master/7.%20Catalog/%201.%20Product%20Types/2.%20Create%20Product%20Type.md#L8)
- Override the price model class


# 2. Questions



## Under what circumstances are product prices read from the index tables?

When using collections. In the class **Mage_Catalog_Model_Resource_Product_Collection** the method *_preparePriceExpressionParameters()* is used to get the price from the index table.

## From which modules do classes participate in price calculation?

Mage_Catalog_Model_Product_Type_Price


## Which ways exist to specify custom prices during runtime?

Use observer catalog_product_get_final_price

## How do custom product options influence price calculation?

If a custom product option has a price, then this is appended to the price of the product.

## How are product tier prices implemented and displayed?

Tiered pricing is stored *catalog_product_entity_tier_price*
The price model check the quantity against the quantity in this table along with customer group and website/store.

They are then displayed in *template/catalog/product/view/tierprices.phtml*

## What is the priority of the different prices that can be specified for products (price, special price, group price, tier price, etc.)?

Get calculated price, if it is set, else:
Get base price
- apply group prices,
- apply tier prices,
- apply special prices (not sales rules)

Get final price
dispatch event catalog_product_get_final_price
- Apply catalog price rules to product on frontend
Apply configurable items price (for config products)
Apply options price
Return final price


# 3. Further Reading

- [http://blog.magestore.com/magento-blog-price-generation/](http://blog.magestore.com/magento-blog-price-generation/)
- [http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14443991/under-what-circumstances-are-product-prices-read-from-the-index-tables-in-magent](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14443991/under-what-circumstances-are-product-prices-read-from-the-index-tables-in-magent)
