# Explain how Magento loads and manipulates configuration information


## Overview

When loading a class in Magento this can sometimes be referred to *name class resolution*.

So we are going to use an example to explain how the class name is resolved in Magento.


    $order = Mage::getModel('sales/order');



## 1. getModel()

This return the method Mage_Core_Model_Config::getModelInstance()


## 2. getModelInstance($modelClass, array $arguments)

This gets the class name from the method *getModelClassName* and passes in the arguments when creating the object class.



## 3. getModelClassName($modelClass)

This does 2 things:

- validates the class name
- Gets the class name

### 3.1 Validate

The first thing it does is checks if a forward slash exists in the class name.


    $modelClass = trim($modelClass);
    if (strpos($modelClass, '/')===false) {
        return $modelClass;
    }


### 3.2 Gets the class name

It then gets the class name from the method *getGroupedClassName*

    $this->getGroupedClassName('model', $modelClass);


## 4. getGroupedClassName($groupType, $classId, $groupRootNode=null)

This is main method which figures out the classname from the layout XML also known as *class name resolution*.

### 4.1 Parameters

- **$groupType** is the type e.g. model, block, helper
- **$classId** is the class name e.g. "sales/order"
- **$groupRootNode** is the XML node to search in. By default it will search in global



### 4.2 config.xml

Before we go through this method the sales order class config xml looks something like this

      <global>
        <models>
            <sales>
                <class>Mage_Sales_Model</class>
            </sales>
        </models>
      </global>

Please take a mental note of the node *sales* and the class *Mage_Sales_Model*


### 4.3 GroupRootNode

Firstly if there is no GroupRootNode set, we combine "global/" and the groupType e.g. "global/models" or "global/blocks"

    if (empty($groupRootNode)) {
        $groupRootNode = 'global/'.$groupType.'s';
    }

In our example this would be *global/models"*.

This is the XML node used to resolve the class name.


### 4.4 Group Name

The next thing it does is figure out the group name. This is the name before the forward slash in your class name. So in our example it would be "sales".

It explodes the string by "/" and then also assigns the second part of the string to a variable called *$class*.


### 4.5 Checks the cache

It then checks to see has the class name already being resolved in the cache and if so returns that class name so it does not need to repeat itself.

    if (isset($this->_classNameCache[$groupRootNode][$group][$class])) {
      return $this->_classNameCache[$groupRootNode][$group][$class];
    }


### 4.6 Get Config XML

It then gets the XML for group *(global -> models -> sales)*.


    $config = $this->_xml->global->{$groupType.'s'}->{$group};


**Note:** Class name for $config is *Mage_Core_Model_Config_Element*.


### 4.7 Check for Rewrite

It then checks to see if there is a rewrite node exists and if does sets this as the classname.


So for example if you rewriting the sales model (first task in Meeting 2 of the Group Guide). Your XML would like the following:


    <global>
      <models>
        <sales>
          <rewrite>
            <order>Colin_Two_Model_Rewrite_Sales_Order</order>
          </rewrite>
        </sales>
      </models>
    </global>


The code for getting the rewrite class is the following

      if (isset($config->rewrite->$class)) {
          $className = (string)$config->rewrite->$class;
      }

So in the rewrite exercise the $config would be *global -> models -> sales* and the $class would be *order*.


### 4.8 Get the class name

Finally if there is no rewrite, Magento will do the following:

#### 4.8.1. Get the classname from the *class* node.

So in our example, the classname would be Mage_Sales_Model as its set in the *<class>* node.
This gets the class in *Mage_Core_Model_Config_Element->getClassName()*.


####  4.8.2. Use default classname if node does not exists

So if the node did not exist it creates the classname from the following:

    $className = 'mage_'.$group.'_'.$groupType;

So if you were calling it from a package outside Mage e.g. Colin_Two then the class name would be *Mage_Two_Model*.


#### 4.8.3. Append _$class to the classname.

Finally it appends the _$class so our classname now would *Mage_Sales_Model_Order*

**Note:** It should be noted that the function *ucwords* is ran on the class name so if you called Mage::getModel('sales/test_class') the variable $class would Test_Class.


### 4.9 Cache the class name

This then caches the name as follows and returns the class name.

    $this->_classNameCache[$groupRootNode][$group][$class] = $className


# Conclusion

To run over this briefly again the following happens when Magento is loading a class.

- Checks if the class name is separated by a forward slash.
- Splits the string into group and class e.g. sales/order, sales is group and class is order.
- Checks to see if the class name is already cached. If so return the class name.
- Checks for a rewrite.
- Otherwise gets the class node (Mage_Sales_Model) and combines it with the class (Mage_Sales_Model_Order).
- Caches the classname and returns the class,
- The autoloader then loads the file and class.
