# Describe how to extend the Magento multishipping implementation

# 1. Options

Multishipping is enabled/disabled under Sales -> Shipping Settings -> Options.
It has 2 options:

1. Enable/Disable
2. Maximum Qty Allowed for Shipping to Multiple Addresses

# 2. Checkout Flow

So if you allow multishipping the following will happen with the checkout process.


1. Different Checkout Controller
2. Select Address for each item
3. Select Shipping Method for each address
4. Select Billing Address and Payment Method
5. Place Order

### Select Address

Checkout URL will be checkout/multishipping/ instead of checkout/onepage and use **Mage_Checkout_MultishippingController** instead of **Mage_Checkout_OnepageController**. These both extend from **Mage_Checkout_Controller_Action** which adds a method to make sure the customer is logged in.

You will need to select an existing address for each product quantity (e.g. if you had ordered 2 of the same product then you will need to select 2 addresses for each quantity).

In the database quote items are added to sales_flat_quote_address_item as quote items are added to the shipping address instead of the quote.

### Shipping Methods

Then at the next step you need to select shipping method for each address. This then calculates the totals for each shipping address.

### Billing Information Payment Method

The next step is to set the billing information and payment method.


# 3. How different product types work with Multishipping

## Virtual Product

These are stored in the **flat_sales_quote_address_item** as normal but their shipping address is actually the billing address as they have no shipping

## Bundle Products

Grouped products get added to the cart as multiple separate products, so they can be selected to be shipped to different addresses using the regular multi-shipping checkout process. However, bundled products cannot be split among multiple addresses.




# 4. Questions

## How does the storage of quotes for multishipping and onepage checkouts differ?

Quote Items are stored in **flat_sales_quote_address_item**.

## Which quotes in a multishipping checkout flow will be virtual?

Virtual Products will be added to **flat_sales_quote_address_item** but it does not have a shipping address. Instead the item is added to the billing address.

## How can different product types be split among multiple addresses when using multishipping in Magento?

The items are added to flat_sales_quote_address_item and then they set a parent address id which is based in flat_sales_quote_address table.

## How many times are total models executed on a multishipping checkout in Magento?

For each address.

## Which model is responsible for multishipping checkout in Magento?


| One Page Checkout     | Multi Shipping     |
| :------------- | :------------- |
| Mage_Checkout_OnepageController | Mage_Checkout_MultishippingController |
| Mage_Checkout_Model_Type_Onepage | Mage_Checkout_Model_Type_Mulitishipping |



# Further Reading

- [http://www.divisionlab.com/solvingmagento/magento-multishipping-checkout/](http://www.divisionlab.com/solvingmagento/magento-multishipping-checkout/)
- [http://magecert.com/checkout.html](http://magecert.com/checkout.html)
