# Describe request routing/request flow in Magento

# 1. Overview

This is a general overview of information already covered in the notes.

## 1.1. Application Process

So a general overview of how Magento works:

1. Initialize Application
2. Call Front Controller
3. Collect Routes for Standard and Admin Routers
4. Add CMS and Default Routers
5. Loop through routers until match for router
6. Call Controller action and create a layout object
7. Generate Layout object
8. Render Layout


## 1.2 Anatomy of a URL

$base/$module/$contoller/$action/$params

A URL will always be this structure e.g. http://www.mywebsite.com/catalog/product/view/id/1 or http://www.mywebsite.com/catalog/product/view/id/1/category/3

- catalog = Module
- product = Controller
- view = Action/Method
- id = Param
- category - Param

So it would call *Mage_Catalog_ProductController->viewAction();*


## 1.3 Routers Overview

So the Front Controller is called in *Mage_Core_Model_App->run()*

- This then loads the admin and standard router from <web><config> nodes in the config.xml
- It then collect routes for this routers so they can match a URL
- It then adds the CMS router through the *controller_init_front_routers* observer.
- It will any custom router at this point
- It will then add the Default router to handle 404s.
- At this point it will loop through all the routers until it finds a match and then dispatches the action.


## 1.4 Routers

There are 4 Routers

1. admin - Mage_Core_Controller_Varien_Router_Admin
2. standard - Mage_Core_Controller_Varien_Router_Standard
1. cms - Mage_Cms_Controller_Router
4. default - Mage_Core_Controller_Varien_Router_Default


# 2. Router Configuration Settings

Under System -> Configuration -> Web -> Default Pages

We have the following settings.

### 1. Default Web URL

This is the default path for the standard router.
By default this is set to cms which would use cms/index/index path.

### 2. CMS Home Page

The homepage to be used by the CMS Router

### 3. Default No-route URL

The path for 404 pages which would use the standard router.

### 4. CMS No Route Page

The 404 page for the default router.

### 5. CMS No Cookies Page

The page for when Cookies is disabled.


# 3. Standard Router - Collect Routes

Admin Router extends from Standard Router and calls collectRoute when it has evaluated if its the admin URL.

Just before we dive into the functionality here is an example of a router in the config.xml:


    <frontend>
        <routers>
            <catalog>
                <use>standard</use>
                <args>
                    <module>Mage_Catalog</module>
                    <frontName>catalog</frontName>
                </args>
            </catalog>
        </routers>

Or:

    <frontend>
        <routers>
            <colin_request>
                <use>standard</use>
                <args>
                    <module>Colin_Request</module>
                    <frontName>football</frontName>
                </args>
            </colin_request>
        </routers>
    </frontend>



### 3.1 Get Router nodes for that area e.g. frontend/routers

    $routersConfigNode = Mage::getConfig()->getNode($configArea.'/routers');

### 3.2. Checks if use node is the same of the name of router e.g. <use>standard</use> would match the standard router.

### 3.3. Gets the name of the module from the args node.

### 3.4. If there are children nodes (before/after) it will add the routers before/after the router.

**Example:** So if we were wanting to add a router before/after the catalog we would add the following bit of code to our config.xml. Note that we use "modules" instead of "module".


    <frontend>
        <routers>
            <catalog>
                <args>
                    <modules>
                        <colin_request before="Mage_Catalog">Colin_Request</colin_request>
                    </modules>
                </args>
            </catalog>
        </routers>
    </frontend>


So what Magento will do is search for the "Mage_Catalog" module in the the config and put this module before it.
This is the same for the after part only that it will add it after the module.

After this it will add the module to the router using addModule

      $this->addModule($frontName, $modules, $routerName);


It should be noted that the $modules would be an array if a before/after is used e.g.

    array (
      0 => string 'Colin_Request'
      1 => string 'Mage_Catalog'
      )


### 3.5 addModule($frontName, $moduleName, $routerName);

1. This adds the $moduleName to the property $_modules using the front name as the key.


    $this->_modules[$frontName] = $moduleName;  
    $this->_modules['catalog'] = array(0 => 'Mage_Catalog');
    $this->_modules['football'] = array(0 => 'Colin_Request');


2. It also add the front name to the property $_routes using the route name as the key.


    $this->_routes[$routeName] = $frontName;
    $this->_routes['catalog'] = 'catalog';
    $this->_routes['colin_request'] = 'football';



The modules and routes will be used in match to match the router when the Mage_Core_Controller_Varien_Front-><dispatch(); method is called.

# 4. Standard Router - Match Routes


### 4.1. Check if admin and if so return false

### 4.2 Gets the path

    $path = trim($request->getPathInfo(), '/');

So if this was a product or catalog it will return the following - catalog/product/view/id/1 or catalog/category/view/id/4

### 4.3 Explodes the path by "/"

e.g.


      0 => string 'catalog'
      1 => string 'product'
      2 => string 'view'
      3 => string 'id'
      4 => string '1'


### 4.4 Sets the module name

So if there is 0 key in $p it will set that as the module name (catalog or football).

Otherwise it will set it as the cms module from configuration. So this value "cms" is set under System -> Configuration -> Web -> Default Pages -> Cms Homepage.


Then if there is no module and the store id is the admin id it will set the module as admin.
This is for custom routers in admin.

Otherwise it will return false and the default router will set the page as a 404.


### 4.5. Get module name

So in the collectRoutes we set the modules and routes property.

So we get the array of modules (usually 1) from the following:

    $modules = $this->getModuleByFrontName($module);
    $modules = $this->getModuleByFrontName('catalog');
    $modules = $this->getModuleByFrontName('football');


If its empty we return false.

### 4.6 Find Controller and Dispatch

We then loop through the modules and find the Controller.

We then create the controller using the following code:

    Mage::getControllerInstance($controllerClassName, $request, $front->getResponse());

If it does not find a controller it will get the index_noroute controller.


### 4.7 Dispatch Controller

So firstly we set the module, controller and action in the request object Mage_Core_Controller_Request_Http
We then set any additional parameters to the request object.

We then dispatch the action in the Mage_Core_Controller_Varien_Action class.

    $controllerInstance->dispatch($action);


# 5. CMS Router -> match();

This gets the URL and then uses the Mage_Cms_Model_Page to get the page id.

If there is no page id it will return false.

Otherwise we set the Request class *Mage_Core_Controller_Request_Http* to use the module "cms" and it will call *Mage_Cms_PageController->viewAction()* when dispatched along with the page id as a parameter.


    $request->setModuleName('cms')
        ->setControllerName('page')
        ->setActionName('view')
        ->setParam('page_id', $pageId);


# 6. Further Reading

[http://alanstorm.com/magento_dispatch_standard_router](http://alanstorm.com/magento_dispatch_standard_router)
