# Describe how to modify and effectively customize the quote object, the quote item object, and the address object


# 1. Overview

A quote stores the following information:

1. Customer information & Price Information
2. Items in the quote
3. Billing and Shipping Address
4. Shipping Method
5. Payment Method

These are stored in the following tables:

1. sales_flat_quote
2. sales_flat_quote_address
3. sales_flat_quote_address_item
4. sales_flat_quote_item
5. sales_flat_quote_item_option
6. sales_flat_quote_payment
7. sales_flat_quote_shipping_rate

## sales_flat_quote

This stores the quote id, quote information, customer information (name, email, prefix etc) and total information.

### Additional Information

#### base_currency_code vs store_currency_code vs quote_currency_code

1. base_currency_code - Global Currency code
2. store_currency_code - Store Group Currency code
3. quote_currency_code - Store View Currency code


#### grand_total vs base_grand_total

4. grand_total - store view total
5. base_grand_total - global total

**Example:**

- Base Currency - USD
- Store View Currency - EUR
- Product $10.00
- Rate $1 = €0.75

**sales_flat_quote**

| grand_total     | base_grand_total     |
| :------------- | :------------- |
| 7.50       | 10.00       |

This is the same for subtotal and base_subtotal and also subtotal_with_discount and base_subtotal_with_discount.

The currency rate is also stored here:

| base_to_global_rate     | base_to_quote_rate     |
| :------------- | :------------- |
| 1.0000       | 0.7500       |

#### Catalog Price Rules

The id of the catalog price rule is store in **applied_rule_ids**. This id refers to the id in **catalogrule** table.


## sales_flat_quote_address

This stores both billing and shipping address. It is distinguished by address_type.

## sales_flat_quote_address_item

This stores the different addresses for multishipping.


## sales_flat_quote_item

This stores the product, price information, quantity, tax and basic product information such as the name and SKU.


## sales_flat_quote_item_option

This stores any additional information for the sales_flat_quote_item such as configurable product information. The values are serialized in this table.

| option_id     | item_id     | product_id | code | value |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| 1 | 17 | 22 | product_type | grouped |
| 1 | 17 | 11 | info_buyRequest | a:1:{s:20:"super_product_config";a:2:{s:12:"product_type";s:7:"grouped";s:10:"product_id";s:5:"22";}} |
| 1 | 18 | 25 | parent_product_id | 37 |
| 1 | 18 | 37 | info_buyRequest |a:6:{s:4:"uenc";s:80:"aHR0cDovL2llLnBpdHRtYW4uZGV2L3NuaWNrZXJzLXdlZWtlbmQtZGVhbC1kZWFsLW5vLTYuaHRtbA,,";s:7:"product";s:4:"7012";s:8:"form_key";s:16:"5V0LaGwJ6vjaV4Gk";s:15:"related_product";s:0:"";s:15:"super_attribute";a:3:{i:150;s:3:"230";i:146;s:3:"174";i:145;s:2:"76";}s:3:"qty";s:1:"1";} |

## sales_flat_quote_payment

Store the payment details such as payment method, card type, credit card details (not mandatory)

## sales_flat_quote_shipping_rate

This stores the shipping method selected and also the shipping amount if applicable to the product.

# 2 Add To Cart

Quotes are mainly controlled by the **Mage_Sales_Model_Quote**.

When a product is added to the cart it is added by the Checkout Controller **Mage_Checkout_CartController**.

So if you look at **Mage_Catalog_Block_Product_Abstract->getSubmitUrl()** you will see this generates a form key for the product page

    checkout/cart/add/product/{{product_id}}/form_key/{{form_key}}/

When you click add to cart it appends qty/{{qty}} to the end of the URL and submits the data.

The form key is generated by the session Model **Mage_Core_Model_Session**.


    Mage::getSingleton('core/session')->getFormKey();



So in the **addAction** method of the checkout it calls the following:


      //Mage_Checkout_Model_Cart $cart
      $cart->addProduct($product, $params);


##  Mage_Checkout_Model_Cart->addProduct($product, $params)

This does the following:

1. Gets product information
2. Checks if the product is in stock
3. If in stock gets the quotes model Mage_Sales_Model_Quote and adds a product to the cart
4. Catches any errors and sets error message
5. If successful dispatches an event

Mage_Checkout_Model_Cart->getQuote() checks if the model is set or otherwise calls **Mage_Checkout_Model_Session->getQuote()**


### Mage_Checkout_Model_Session->getQuote()

Before it does anything it dispatches the following event:

    Mage::dispatchEvent('custom_quote_process', array('checkout_session' => $this));


This then checks if there is a quote object and if there is one it returns the quote object.
Otherwise it will do the following.

1. Create Quote Object and set store id

    $quote = Mage::getModel('sales/quote')->setStoreId(Mage::app()->getStore()->getId());

2. Checks if there is quote id. If there is a quote it will then check if the currency quote is equal to the currency of the base store. If it is not it will recalculate the values e.g. base_grand_total and grand_total.

3. If there is no quote id it will check if a customer is logged in and then get the last quote id for the customer for that store.

4. If there is a quote id it will then also check if there is a customer. If there is a customer it will set the customer for that quote.

So once the it has the quote object it calls the following:


    $result = $this->getQuote()->addProduct($product, $request);


### Mage_Sales_Model_Quote->addProduct($product, $request)

**1. Prepare Product**

This calls the following which calls the method prepareForCartAdvanced for each product type and validate the product so it can be added to the cart.

    $cartCandidates = $product->getTypeInstance(true)
    ->prepareForCartAdvanced($request, $product, $processMode);

This calls the abstract class for most product types which is **Mage_Catalog_Model_Product_Type_Abstract**
prepareForCartAdvanced calls the method **_prepareProduct($Varien_Object $buyRequest, $product, $processMode)**.

This method checks for custom options and also sets other data such as the product type.

**Mage_Catalog_Model_Product_Type_Configurable** overrides **_prepareProduct** and adds configurable options to the sales_flat_quote_item_option table.

**Mage_Catalog_Model_Product_Type_Grouped** overrides **_prepareProduct** and adds associated product information to the sales_flat_quote_item_option table.

**Mage_Bundle_Model_Product_Type** overrides **_prepareProduct** and adds bundle information to the sales_flat_quote_item_option table.

 **Mage_Downloadable_Model_Product_Type** overrides **_prepareProduct** and adds downloadable links to the sales_flat_quote_item_option table.


Finally back in **Mage_Checkout_Model_Cart->addProduct($product, $params)** it will dispatch the following event

    Mage::dispatchEvent('checkout_cart_product_add_after', array('quote_item' => $result, 'product' => $product));



# 3. Questions

### What is the quote model used for in Magento?

To store cart items and other information related to the checkout.

### What is the shopping cart model used for in Magento?

To get the quote model and also add products to the cart.

### How does Magento store information about the shopping cart?

In the sale quote tables and Mage_Sales_Model_Quote object.

### How are different product types processed when added to the cart?

In the product type class the method **_prepareProduct** or the method **prepareForCartAdvanced**.

## What is the difference between shipping and billing address objects in Magento? How is each used in the quote object?

Both use the same class **Mage_Sales_Model_Quote_Address** and saved in the **sales_flat_quote_address** table but different types.

The shipping address (or billing address if the product is virtual or downloadable) is used to calculate the total for the order and available shipping methods.

## What is the difference in processing quote items for onepage and multishipping checkout in Magento?

Each multi-shipping item is stored to it's own shipping address, this means they are stored in the **sales_flat_quote_address_item** table unlike the standard onepage's **sales_flat_quote_item.**

The multi-shipping checkout also uses a different controller which is **Mage_Checkout_MultishippingController** and a custom model **Mage_Checkout_Model_Type_Mulitishipping**.


## How does Magento process additional information about products being added to the shopping cart (custom options, components of configurable products, etc.)?

Stores information in **sales_flat_quote_options** table.

## How do products in the shopping cart affect the checkout process?

- Catalog Price Rules
- Shopping Cart Rules
- Tax Class
- Shipping Costs

## How can the billing and shipping addresses affect the checkout process?

It can affect the total, shipping method - (shipping rate) and tax.

## When exactly does inventory decrementing occur?

When an order is created.

/app/code/core/Mage/Sales/Model/Service/Quote.php in the submitOrder() method


     Mage::dispatchEvent('sales_model_service_quote_submit_success', array('order'=>$order, 'quote'=>$quote));


/app/code/core/Mage/CatalogInventory/etc/config.xml

    <sales_model_service_quote_submit_before>
        <observers>
            <inventory>
                <class>cataloginventory/observer</class>
                <method>subtractQuoteInventory</method>
            </inventory>
        </observers>
    </sales_model_service_quote_submit_before>

which calls /app/code/core/Mage/CatalogInventory/Model/Observer.php

    /**
     * Subtract quote items qtys from stock items related with quote items products.
     *
     * Used before order placing to make order save/place transaction smaller
     * Also called after every successful order placement to ensure subtraction of inventory
     *
     * @param Varien_Event_Observer $observer
     */
    public function subtractQuoteInventory(Varien_Event_Observer $observer)
    {
        $quote = $observer->getEvent()->getQuote();

        // Maybe we've already processed this quote in some event during order placement
        // e.g. call in event 'sales_model_service_quote_submit_before' and later in 'checkout_submit_all_after'
        if ($quote->getInventoryProcessed()) {
            return;
        }
        $items = $this->_getProductsQty($quote->getAllItems());

        /**
         * Remember items
         */
        $this->_itemsForReindex = Mage::getSingleton('cataloginventory/stock')->registerProductsSale($items);

        $quote->setInventoryProcessed(true);
        return $this;
    }


## When exactly does card authorization and capturing occur?

When an order is placed.

Place function in /app/code/core/Mage/Sales/Model/Order/Payment.php decides whether to do Authorize or Authorize and Capture. This ultimately calls the authorize() or capture() function in the relevant payment method. If authorize is used, and an online invoice is subsequently created, it will call the capture() function in /app/code/core/Mage/Sales/Model/Order/Invoice.php which calls the corresponding capture() function in the relevant payment method.


## 4. Further Reading
- [http://www.ecomdev.org/2012/12/12/magento-checkout-shopping-cart-flow.html](http://www.ecomdev.org/2012/12/12/magento-checkout-shopping-cart-flow.html)
- [http://magecert.com/checkout.html](http://magecert.com/checkout.html)
- [https://prezi.com/360sqt1ykfdl/magento-checkout-components/](https://prezi.com/360sqt1ykfdl/magento-checkout-components/)
- [http://www.brideo.co.uk/magento-certification-notes/checkout/checkout-components/Checkout-Components/](http://www.brideo.co.uk/magento-certification-notes/checkout/checkout-components/Checkout-Components/)
