# Implement, troubleshoot, and modify Magento tax rules



# 1. Tax Classes

Tax has 2 tax classes:

1. Product
2. Customer Group

These classes are applied to products and customer groups and is used then to add tax using a tax rule.
When you create a customer group you set a name and customer tax class.
When you create a product you set a tax group.

# 2. Tax Rates

Taxes are stored in the **tax_calculation_rate** table. They have the following options:

- Identifier
- Country
- State
- Zip/Post Code
- Percent


# 3. Tax Rules

So in Magento Tax is applied to a customer group or product with a certain tax class. These are set in the Tax Rules.

Tax Rules have the following parameters:

- Name
- Customer Tax Class - multiselect of customer tax classes it applies to
- Product Tax Class - multiselect of product tax classes it applies to
- Tax Rate - multiselect of tax rates to apply to
- Priority - Used to sort the order of rules. If an order has multiple rules with the same priority they are combined and applied.


# 4. How Tax is Calulated

Tax is determined by the following factors:

1. Customer Group/Product Tax Class
2. Address - configuration setting and can be based on shipping, billing address or origin

Other factors which affect the total are under System -> Configuration -> Tax -> Calculation Settings:

**1. Tax Calculation Method Based On**
- Total
- Unit Price
- Row Total

**2. Catalog Prices**
Whether prices added include/exclude tax added by admin.

**3. Shipping Prices**
Whether shipping prices include/exclude tax added by admin.

**4. Apply Customer Tax**
Apply before/after discount

**5. Apply Discount On Prices**
Apply discount on products inc/exc tax if apply after discount is selected in the precious option.

**6. Apply Tax On**
- Custom Price if available
- Original Price

**7. Enable Cross Border Trade**
When catalog price includes tax, enable this setting will fix the price no matter what the customer's tax rate is.


# Further Reading

- [http://www.divisionlab.com/solvingmagento/taxes-in-magento-module-mage_tax/](http://www.divisionlab.com/solvingmagento/taxes-in-magento-module-mage_tax/)
