# Identify and describe standard product types

# 0. Overview

There are 6 types:

1. Simple
2. Grouped
3. Configurable
4. Virtual
5. Downloadable
6. Bundle

These are set in the config.xml which we will go through in the next part.


## 0.1. Product Types

Products are setup in the config.xml (more next part) and all product types extend from **Mage_Catalog_Model_Product_Type_Abstract**.

### Mage_Catalog vs non Mage_Catalog

**Mage_Catalog Products:**

1. Simple - Mage_Catalog_Model_Product_Type_Simple
2. Grouped - Mage_Catalog_Model_Product_Type_Grouped
3. Configurable - Mage_Catalog_Model_Product_Type_Configurable
4. Virtual - Mage_Catalog_Model_Product_Type_Virtual

**Mage_Bundle**

5. Bundle - Mage_Bundle_Model_Product_Type

**Mage_Downloadable**

6. Downloadable - Mage_Downloadable_Model_Product_Type

This also extends from **Mage_Catalog_Model_Product_Type_Virtual**


### Get a Product Type
To get a product type you would run the following bit of code:


    $product->getTypeInstance();


# 1. Simple Product

**Type:** Mage_Catalog_Model_Product_Type_Simple


# 2. Grouped Product

**Type:** Mage_Catalog_Model_Product_Type_Grouped


## Table Structure

This is for multiple products which are grouped. The simple products are stored in the **catalog_product_link** table.

Example:

| link_id     | product_id     | linked_product_id     | link_type_id     |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| 1    | 3     | 1      | 3      |
| 2    | 3     | 2      | 3      |

- **link_id** - unique
- **product_id** - grouped product
- **linked_product_id** - simple product
- **link_type_id** -  The link type is 3 as its a super product and the values for the link type are stored in **catalog_product_link_type** table.

**Note:** This is also where related, cross sells and upsells are stored. The only difference is the link_type_id.

**Note:** A further table *catalog_product_relation* also stores all relations (configurable, bundle etc). It only stores the parent and child id.

## Get Associated Products


    $product = Mage::getModel("catalog/product")->load(3);
    $grouped = $product->getTypeInstance(true);
    foreach($grouped->getAssociatedProducts($product) as $simple) {
        echo $simple->getSku() . "<br />";
    }

# 3. Configurable Product

**Type:** Mage_Catalog_Model_Product_Type_Configurable

## Tables

Configurable products are stored **catalog_product_super_link**. This stores the product id and parent id of the configurable products.

| link_id     | product_id     | parent_id     |
| :------------- | :------------- | :------------- |
| 1    | 1    | 4      |
| 1    | 2    | 2      |



Configurable Attributes are stored in **catalog_product_super_attribute**. This stores the product id and attribute id used to create the configurable product.


Pricing is stored in **catalog_product_super_attribute_pricing** for the different products. This price is used to add/subtract from the configurable product price.


# 4. Virtual

**Type:** Mage_Catalog_Model_Product_Type_Virtual

These are virtual products such as a subscription service. The difference between Virtual and Downloadable is that you can download a file/files.

# 5. Downloadable

**Type:** Mage_Downloadable_Model_Product_Type

These are products with downloadable files.

## Tables

Downloadable Products are stored in **downloadable_link** table. This contains the file, sample file(optional), sharable, max number of downloads, type and number of downloads.

**downloadable_link_price** stores the price of individual downloadable products. Downloadable Products have a base price.

## Get Links


      //@var Mage_Catalog_Model_Product $product
      $product = Mage::getModel("catalog/product")->load(6);
      //@var Mage_Downloadable_Model_Product_Type $downloadable
      $downloadable = $product->getTypeInstance(true);

      $links = $downloadable->getLinks($product);
      foreach($links as $link) {
          $file = Mage::getUrl("media/downloadble/files/links/") . $link['link_file'];
          echo $file;
      }


You can also get samples with $downloadble->getSamples($downloadble);


# 6. Bundle

**Type:** Mage_Bundle_Model_Product_Type


These are bundle products where a user can select multiple simple products. Bundle products have a base price and individual simple products can also have an additional price. These are added under Bundle items and can also their price can be fixed or percent.


## Tables

**catalog_product_bundle_selection:** stores the simple products and prices.
Bundle products also have their own index tables.
