## 1. Which classes in Mage_Eav are used as resource models and which are used as regular models?

1. Non EAV
- Model : Mage_Core_Model_Abstract

2. EAV
- Resource Model: Mage_Eav_Model_Entity_Abstract
- Collection: Mage_Eav_Model_Entity_Collection_Abstract

## 2. How do flat and EAV resource models differ?

Flat model sets the main table and field.


      class Colin_Database_Model_Resource_Results extends Mage_Core_Model_Resource_Db_Abstract
      {
          protected function _construct()
          {
              $this->_init('colin_database/results', 'id');
          }
      }


EAV sets the EAV type and connection.


      class Colin_EAV_Model_Resource_Blog extends Mage_Eav_Model_Entity_Abstract
      {
          protected function _construct()
          {
              $resource = Mage::getSingleton('core/resource');
              $this->setType('colin_eav_blog');
              $this->setConnection(
                  $resource->getConnection('core_read'),
                  $resource->getConnection('core_write')
              );
          }
      }


## 3. Which entities in a native Magento installation use EAV resource models and why?


| Name     | Entity Type Code     | Entity Model     |
| :------------- | :------------- | :-------------     |
| 1. Customer      | customer       | customer/customer     |
| 2. Customer Address      | customer_address       | customer/address     |
| 3. Product      | catalog_product       | catalog/product     |
| 4. Category      | catalog_category       | catalog/category     |
| 5. Order      | order       | sales/order     |
| 6. Invoice      | invoice       | sales/order_invoice     |
| 7. Credit Memo      | creditmemo       | sales/order_creditmemo     |
| 8. Shipment      | shipment       | sales/shipment     |

**Why:**

- Easy to add/remove attributes
- Database extends vertically not horizontally with new columns


## 4. What are the advantages and disadvantages of EAV over flat table resource models?

**Advantages**

- Easy to add new attributes
- No additioal columns need to be added when adding a new attribute


**Disadvantages**

- Speed and Performance for Database Queries


## 5. How are store and website scope attribute values implemented in the Magento EAV system?

store_id for the main entity table and also the attribute tables.

## 6. How does the model distinguish between insert and update operations?

- If no id exists then it creates the entity otherwise updates the entity
- If value is empty it deletes the row/entity

## 7. How do load and save processes for EAV entities differ from those for flat table entities? What parts are identical?

**Same:**

- Uses same Model abstract class

**Differences:**

- EAV Resource Model loads main table and attributes while Flat loads 1 row
- EAV saves to multiple tables while FLAT saves to one table
