## Applying the shopping cart rule's action affects the quote item by setting the quote item's

1. base_row_total and cow_total properties with the discounted price
2. base_price_incl_tax and price_incl_tax properties with the discounted price
3. base_price and price properties with the discounted price
4. base_discount_amount and discount_amount with the discount applied to the original price

**Answer:** 3


## What are necessary steps to create 1 module payment in Magento? (3 answers)

1. Create resource model payment
2. Create model payment
3. Declare payment method in xpath config/default/payment
4. Declare configuration in etc/system.xml
5. Create controller

**Answer:**  3,4,2

## To change the checkout mode form GUEST to REGISTER and vice versa,  which event is needed?

1. checkout_allow_guest
2. is_allowed_guest_checkout
3. is_allowed_register_checkout
4. change_checkout_method

**Answer:**  1

## How to set order for a magento collection?(Choose 2)

1. $coll->getSelect()->order(‘entity_id desc’);
2. $coll->setOrder(‘entity_id desc’);
3. $coll->getSelect()->order(‘entity_id’,’desc’);
4. $coll->setOrder(‘entity_id’,'desc’);

**Answer:** 1,4


## Which table to store the relationship data between configurable product and it’s simple product?

1. catalog_product_relation table
2. Both table catalog_product_superlink and catalog_product_relation
3. catalog_product_link table
4. catalog_product_superlink table

**Answer:** 2


## How to change sort function for columns in grid magento in admin?

1. Create renderer for the column you want to rewrite
2. Rewrite function_setCollectionOrder for block grid
3. Rewrite \_prepareCollection for block grid
4. Override template of the grid

**Answer** 3

## The order to call function in grid block

1. \_prepareColumns
2. \_prepareMassaction
3. \_prepareCollection

**Answer** 1,2,3

## What is the declarative statement in config file  for overriding block catalog/product_list?

1. catalog_product/rewrite/list
2. catalog/rewrite/product/list
3. catalog/product_list/rewrite
4. catalog/rewrite/product_list

**Answer:** 4

## Choose the correct function to edit getURL customer in grid files in admin

1. $this->getUrl(' customeradmin/customer/edit', array('id' => $row->getId()));
2. None of them is correct.
3. $this->getUrl('adminhtml/customer/edit', array('id' => $row->getId()));
4. $this->getUrl('admin/customer/edit', array('id' => $row->getId()));

**Answer:** 3

## Do display a custom total in order page view in frontend, what do we do? ( Choose 2 options)

1. Write collect and fetch method for model total declared in config
2. Declare invoice total model in configuration file ( config.xml) of the module
3. Write method init Totals for block declared from layout.
4. Declare model total in configuration file of the module
5. Add layout to handle sales_order_view for model total declared in config

**Answer:** 1,4


## How to change default length of Increment ID for orders?

1. $entity = Mage::getModel(‘eav/entity_type_order’); $entityType->setIncrementPadLength(12)->save();
2. $entityType = Mage::getModel('eav/entity_type')->loadByCode('order'); $entityType->setIncrementPadLength(12)->save();
3. $entity = Mage::getModel(‘eav/entity_type’)->setType(‘order’); $entityType->setIncrementPadLength(12)->save();

**Answer:** 2


## How to get current url with and without parameters?

1. $currentUrl = $this->helper('core/url')->getCurrentUrl();
2. $currentUrl = $this->getBaseUrl();
3. $request = $this->getRequest();
4. $ currentUrl = Mage::getBaseUrl(array(‘params’=>false))

**Answer:** 1


## What is the difference between grand_total and base_grand_total?

1. base_grand_total is calculated when submitting orders, while grand_total is calculated when closing orders.
2. base_grand_total is calculated based on the base currency, while grand_total is calculated based on the currency of the website's location where orders are submitted.
3. base_grand_total is calculated before tax, while grand_total is calculated after tax.
4. base_grand_total is calculated in USD, while grand_total is calculated in other foreign currencies.

**Answer:** 2

## How to redirect to another url from observer(Varien_Event_Observer $observer) file?

1. $this->redirect($url)
2. $this->getRequest()->redirect($url)
3. $observer->getRequest()->setParam(‘return_url’, $url)
4. $observer->redirectUrl($url)

**Answer:** 1

## You want your module to set some data on the shopping cart item when a product is added to the cart on the frontend. Which event can be used regardless of how the product is added to the cart (from wishlist, through quote merge, etc.)

1. sales_quote_add_item
2. checkout_cart_add_product_complete
3. checkout_cart_product_add_after
4. checkout_cart_save_before

**Answer:** 1

## Which tags are used to declare an event?(Choose 3 options among the followings)

1. frontend
2. global
3. admin
4. default
5. adminhtml
6. crontab

**Answer:** 1,2,5

## When installing a new module ( there is version 0.2.0, which files are run? (there are 2 correct answers)

1. mysql4-upgrade-0.1.0-0.2.0.php
2. mysql4-install-0.1.3.php
3. mysql4-install-0.1.0.php
4. mysql4-upgrade-0.1.3-0.2.0.php
5. mysql4-upgrade-0.1.0-0.1.3.php

**Answer:** 2,4

## To add a total to reduce product price on page Shopping Cart, what do we do? ( 2 answers)

1.	Add Model that is correspondent to the configuration in config.xml, model with collect and fetch method.
2.	Add config total in file config.xml under xpath is config/global/sales/quote/totals
3.	Add config total in file config.xml under xpath is config/global/sales/order_invoice/totals
4.	Add code in to layout file with handle is sales_order_view
5.	Add Block that is correspondent to the configuration in config.xml, block with method initTotals

**Answer:** 1,2


## Which of the followings will enable logging via calls to debugData() on a native Magento payment method model?

1. Set the config node default/payment/[method code]/debug to 1
2. Call setDebug(true) on the payment method model
3. Set the config node default/payment/debug/ [method code] to 1
4. Call Mage::register ('payment_method_debug_' . [method code], true)
5. Set the protected property $\_debug of the payment model to true

**Answer:** 1

## Which one of the following class types directly charges a credit card when capturing an invoice in Magento admin?

1. payment_method
2. Payment
3. Invoice
4. Order

**Answer:** 1

## What is purpose of the following code (in file config.xml)? ( Choose 1 option)


    <global>
        <fieldsets>
            <sales_convert_quote_address>
                <base_discount>
                    <to_order>*</to_order>
                </base_discount>
            </sales_convert_quote_address>
        </fieldsets>
    </global>

1. Create field base_discount for quote_address và order
2. Transfer data of field base_discount from quote address to order when creating an order
3. Transfer field base_discount from quote address to order in database
4. Transfer data of field base_discount field from order to address when creating an order
5. Transfer data of field base_discount from quote to order when a customer orders.

**Answer:** 2

## Which tags below are NOT used in declaring XML layout? (2 correct answers)

1. action
2. update
3. handle
4. template
5. block

**Answer:** 3,4

## To display formatted like the following example: "Aug 30, 2013" , choose the date of the following format:

1. Mage_Core_Model_Locale :: FORMAT_TYPE_SHORT
2. Mage_Core_Model_Locale :: FORMAT_TYPE_MEDIUM
3. Mage_Core_Model_Locale :: FORMAT_TYPE_FULL
4. Mage_Core_Model_Locale :: FORMAT_TYPE_LONG

**Answer:** 2


## How to get product collection which IDs are in array(16,17,18,20) ?

1. $collection->addFieldToFilter(‘id’, array(16,17,18,19));
2. $collection->addFieldToFilter(‘entity_id’=>array(‘in’=>array(16,17,18,19)))
3. $collection->addIdToFilter(array(16,17,18,19));
4. $collection->addFieldToFilter(‘entity_id’=>array(‘gt’=>16,’lt’=>’19’))

**Answer:** 2
