# Describe methods for resolving module conflicts

## 1. Overview


There are 3 types of conflicts in Magento.

- Configuration conflicts
- Rewrite conflicts
- Theme conflicts


## 2. Configuration conflicts

This is where 2 modules conflict as they depend on the same module.
Sometimes this will cause conflicts when loading files or classes.


### 2.1 Example

Module_One and Module_Two both depend Mage Core.


*app/etc/modules/Module_One.xml*

    <config>
      <modules>
        <Module_One>
          <active>true</active>
          <codePool>community</codePool>
          <depends><Mage_Core/></depends>
        </Module_One>
      </modules>
    </config>



*app/etc/modules/Module_Two.xml*

    <config>
      <modules>
        <Module_Two>
          <active>true</active>
          <codePool>community</codePool>
          <depends><Mage_Core/></depends>
        </Module_Two>
      </modules>
    </config>

### 2.2 Solution

The solution is that one of the modules should depend on the other module not Mage_Core.

*app/etc/modules/Module_Two.xml*

    <config>
      <modules>
        <Module_Two>
          <active>true</active>
          <codePool>community</codePool>
          <depends><Mage_One/></depends>
        </Module_Two>
      </modules>
    </config>



## 3. Rewrite conflicts

This is where you have 2 classes from different modules rewriting the same class and running into conflicts.


### 3.1 Example

So for instance if Module_One and Module_Two both rewrite the *Mage_Sales_Model_Order* class they would have the following in their */etc/config.xml*.


*Module_One/etc/config.xml*

    <global>
      <modules>
        <sales>
          <rewrite>
            <order>Module_One_Model_Rewrite_Sales_Order</order>
          </rewrite>
        </sales>
      </modules>

*Module_Two/etc/config.xml*

    <global>
      <modules>
        <sales>
          <rewrite>
            <order>Module_Two_Model_Rewrite_Sales_Order</order>
          </rewrite>
        </sales>
      </modules>


### 3.2 Solution

One of the classes would need extend the other rewrite class and we would remove the rewrite of the extended class.

So in this example we will make Module Two extend from Module One rewrite class.


1. The following XML would be removed

*Module_One/etc/config.xml*

    <global>
      <modules>
        <sales>
          <rewrite>
            <order>Module_One_Model_Rewrite_Sales_Order</order>
          </rewrite>
        </sales>
      </modules>


2. The rewrite class would be extended from Module Ones class.

*app/code/community/Module_Two/Model/Rewrite/Sales/Order.php*


    class Module_Two_Model_Rewrite_Sales_Order extends Module_One_Model_Rewrite_Sales_Order {
      ...
    }



## 4. Theme conflicts

Sometimes there are conflicts with layout XML with themes and modules.

One solution to debug the issue is to turn on hints under *System -> Config -> Advanced -> Developer -> Debug* in the store view.

If you are using PhpStorm and Magicento you can go into any block or template and check where its being called in the layout using the cmd + b command. Not useful for the exam but useful in real life.


## 5. Further Reading

[http://blog.belvg.com/get-ready-for-magento-certified-developer-exam-describing-methods-for-resolving-module-conflicts.html](http://blog.belvg.com/get-ready-for-magento-certified-developer-exam-describing-methods-for-resolving-module-conflicts.html)
