# Describe order creation in the admin


# 1. How Order is Created


1. Sales > Orders > Create New Order
2. Select Customer
3. Select Store and enter details
- Products
- Billing Address
- Shipping Address
- Shipping Method
- Payment Method
4. Place Order


## 1.1. Main Classes

All controllers extend from **Mage_Adminhtml_Controller_Action** class. See Chapter 6 notes.

Sales has the following controllers:

1. Mage_Adminhtml_Sales_Order_CreateController
2. Mage_Adminhtml_Sales_Order_EditController (extends from Mage_Adminhtml_Sales_Order_CreateController)
3. Mage_Adminhtml_Sales_Order_CreditmemoController
4. Mage_Adminhtml_Sales_Order_InvoiceController
5. Mage_Adminhtml_Sales_Order_ShipmentController
6. Mage_Adminhtml_Sales_Order_StatusController



## 1.2. Select Customer

Mage_Adminhtml_Sales_Order_CreateController does the following when initialized it checks to see if the following parameters exist in the Request Object:

1. Customer ID
2. Store ID
3. Currency ID

It then dispatches the following event to create the quote:

    Mage::dispatchEvent('create_order_session_quote_initialized',
            array('session_quote' => $this->\_getSession()));


The layout handle "adminhtml_sales_order_create_index" is created and in the sales.xml in the adminhtml base/default theme it adds the block **Mage_Adminhtml_Block_Sales_Order_Create_Customer**.

At this point you can select and existing customer or create a new customer.

If an existing customer is added then their quote is loaded.

## 1.3. Select Store

Once a customer is selected a store. The **Mage_Adminhtml_Block_Sales_Order_Create_Store** is used to select a store.
At this point the quote is created in the database if the customer is new or does not have a outstanding quote.

The next page allows a admin to select product, shipping and billing address, shipping methods and payment methods.

## 1.4. Products

If its an existing customer with a quote then the products are loaded and an admin can either remove or configure those products.

Otherwise for a new customer **Mage_Adminhtml_Block_Sales_Order_Create_Search** is loaded to allow an admin to add products. If they are grouped, configurable or bundle a modal popup is shown when selected to configure the product.


## 1.5. Calculating Prices for Admin Order

When a item is added and the following happens:

In **->Mage_Adminhtml_Sales_Order_CreateController_processActionData()** the create model is called to add products:

    if ($this->getRequest()->has('item') && !$this->getRequest()->getPost('update_items') && !($action == 'save')) {
        $items = $this->getRequest()->getPost('item');
        $items = $this->\_processFiles($items);
        $this->\_getOrderCreateModel()->addProducts($items);
    }

Then once the products are added the quote model is to **Mage_Sales_Model_Quote** a flag is set to tell the model to recalculate the totals when saved.

**Mage_Adminhtml_Model_Sales_Order_Create->saveQuote()**

    public function saveQuote()
    {
        if (!$this->getQuote()->getId()) {
            return $this;
        }

        if ($this->\_needCollect) {
            $this->getQuote()->collectTotals();
        }

        $this->getQuote()->save();
        return $this;
    }


## 1.6. Billing and Shipping Address

This works quite similar to the onepage checkout in Magento as in if there is a customer it loads in their addresses.

The block is **Mage_Adminhtml_Block_Sales_Order_Create_Billing_Address** and **Mage_Adminhtml_Block_Sales_Order_Create_Shipping_Address** is used for each address and both extend from **Mage_Adminhtml_Block_Sales_Order_Create_Form_Address**.

**Note:** You cannot use multishipping for admin orders.

## 1.7. Shipping Method

The next step is the shipping method. These work the same as on the onepage checkout.

## 1.8. Payment Method

Payment Methods are added with the block **Mage_Adminhtml_Block_Sales_Order_Payment**

### Excluded Payment Methods

Payment methods can be excluded for admin orders by setting the property *$_canUseInternal* to false.


# 2. Questions


## Which classes are involved in order creation in the admin? What are their roles (especially the role of adminhtml classes)?

See above but:

1. Mage_Adminhtml_Sales_Order_CreateController

Controller for creating the order and setting up and processing data for the quote

2. Mage_Sales_Model_Quote

For creating and saving the quote

3. Mage_Sales_Model_Order

For creating the order.

## How does Magento calculate price when an order is created from the admin?

When a item is added. See abovce.

## What happens when existing orders are edited in the admin?

Order can't be edited but re-created. This is done with the Mage_Adminhtml_Sales_Order_EditController.

## What is the difference between order status and order state?

State is a internal Magento process to determine the state of the order. It can have multiple statues.

1. new
2. pending_payment
3. processing
4. complete
5. closed
6. canceled
7. holded

A status however is used to give more information on the state. It can have only 1 assigned state.
These can be configured under System -> Order Statuses

These are stored in the table **sales_order_status**.

By default you have the following statues:

| label     | status     |
| :------------- | :------------- |
| Canceled       | canceled       |
| Closed       | closed       |
| Complete       | complete       |
| Suspected Fraud       | fraud       |
| On Hold       | holded       |
| Payment Review       | payment_review       |
| PayPal Canceled Reversal       | paypal_canceled_reversal       |
| PayPal Reversed       | paypal_reversed       |
| Pending       | pending       |
| Pending Payment       | pending_payment       |
| Pending PayPal       | pending_paypal       |
| Processing       | processing       |


You can also add your own status in the config.xml as follows:

If you look in **app/code/core/Mage/Sales/etc/config.xml** you will see the following:


    <global>
      <sales>
        <order>
           <statuses>
               <pending translate="label">
                   <label>Pending</label>
               </pending>
           </statuses>
           <states>
               <new translate="label">
                   <label>New</label>
                   <statuses>
                       <pending default="1"/>
                   </statuses>
                   <visible_on_front>1</visible_on_front>
               </new>
           </states>
         </order>
       </sales>
     </global>
