# Card operations (capturing and authorization)

# Overview


**Mage_Payment_Model_Method_Abstract** and **Mage_Payment_Model_Method_Cc** is responsible for card operations.

Before we look at the different payment methods we should look at quote to order to invoice process.


# 1. Overview Quote -> Order -> Invoice

When an order is placed an existing quote is converted into an order.

The order tables have the following and are a EAV type "order":

**sales_flat_order**

Stores the main order information such as the quote id, amount, tax etc.
It also stores the state and status of an order.

**sales_flat_order_address**

This stores the address (shipping & billing)

**sales_flat_order_grid**

Stores information for the sales grid.

**sales_flat_order_item**

Contains the products and the different charges per product.

**sales_flat_order_payment**

This stores the payment details.

**sales_flat_order_status_history**

Stores the different changes in statuses for all orders.

Mage_Payment_Model_Method_Cc


## Order to Invoice

When an order state is to complete an invoice is automatically created.
An order is set to processing by the payment method when the method has been charged.

The invoice is created as follows:

In the class **Mage_Sales_Model_Order_Payment** the method **capture** calls **Mage_Sales_Model_Order->prepareInvoice()**.


This creates the invoice **Mage_Sales_Model_Order_Invoice**

    public function prepareInvoice($qtys = array())
    {
        $invoice = Mage::getModel('sales/service_order', $this)->prepareInvoice($qtys);
        return $invoice;
    }

## Invoice tables

**sales_flat_invoice**

This stores the invoice information.

**sales_flat_invoice_comments**

Stores comments about the invoice/order

**sales_flat_invoice_grid**

Stores the totals and billing name.

**sales_flat_invoice_item**

Stores the products for the invoice.



# 2. Capture vs authorize

Capture collects the payment information and awaits the 3rd party to authorize the payment where as authorize is where Magento can make payment on behalf of the user.


# Questions


## Which classes and methods are responsible for credit card operations (for example authorization or capturing)?

Mage_Payment_Model_Method_Abstract
Mage_Payment_Model_Method_Cc

## What is the difference between “pay” and “capture” operations?

Capture collects the payment information whereas pay updates the totals for the invoices.

## What are the roles of the order, order_payment, invoice, and payment methods in the process of charging a card?

1. Order: save buying information.
2. Order payment: save payment information (price, card information)
3. Invoice: save information that customer paid.
4. Payment methods: process charge.

## What are the roles of the total models in the context of the invoice object?

Recalulate the price after finishing the transaction.

## How does Magento store information about invoices?

In the sales_flat invoice tables.


# Further Reading

- [http://magecert.com/sales.html](http://magecert.com/sales.html)
- [http://brideo.co.uk/magento-certification-notes/request-flow/Sales/](http://brideo.co.uk/magento-certification-notes/request-flow/Sales/	)

- [http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5366551/magento-payment-flow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5366551/magento-payment-flow)
- [http://inchoo.net/magento/magento-quote-order-invoice-workflow/](http://inchoo.net/magento/magento-quote-order-invoice-workflow/)
