# Describe the architecture and processing of refunds:

# 1. Overview

Invoices in Magento are Credit Memos. Orders can only be refunded when the order has been invoiced.
Magento stores the refund in the EAV "credimemo" and refunded in the class **Mage_Sales_Model_Order_Creditmemo**.
The payment method Mage_Payment_Model_Method_Abstract->refund() is also used when refunding a order.


# 1. How to refund

1. Go to Sales -> Order
2. Edit Order
3. Click "Credit Memo"
4. Click Refund

In the controller **Mage_Adminhtml_Sales_Order_CreditmemoController->newAction** creates the invoice.
At this point **Mage_Sales_Model_Order_Creditmemo->refund()** is called which creates the refund.

The order status is set to closed.


# 2. Tables

**sales_flat_creditmemo**

Stores the payment information, created date etc

**sales_flat_creditmemo_comment**

Stores any comments.

**sales_flat_creditmemo_grid**

Stores totals.

**sales_flat_creditmemo_item**

Stores items which are returend.

# Questions

Which classes are involved, and which tables are used to store refund information?

See above


## How does Magento process taxes when refunding an order?

It basis it off admin tax origin.

## How does Magento process shipping fees when refunding an order?

Handled by the Credit Memo model when calculating diffent totals.

## What is the difference between online and offline refunding?

Offline refunds refund the order on Magento without actually taking care of the refund transaction. Whereas online does both.

## What is the role of the credit memo total models in Magento?

Credit memo totals keep a track on how much is refunded per total.
