# Describe the load-and-save process for a regular entity

# 1. Background

So to go over setting up a custom table we would add the following to our config.xml

## 1.1. Config.xml


    <global>
        <models>
            <colin_database>
                <class>Colin_Database_Model</class>
                <resourceModel>colin_database_resource</resourceModel>
            </colin_database>
            <colin_database_resource>
                <class>Colin_Database_Model_Resource</class>
                <entities>
                    <results>
                        <table>football_results</table>
                    </results>
                </entities>
            </colin_database_resource>
        </models>


## 1.2. Model

This sets the resource model in the  *_construct* method.

    protected function _construct()
    {
        $this->_init('colin_database/results');
    }

## 1.3. Resource Model

This sets the main table and main field to use in the *_construct* method. If you don't set a main field, then it will use 'id' as default.

    protected function _construct()
    {
        $this->_init('colin_database/results', 'id');
    }

## 1.4. Collection

This sets the model and resource model to use. By default if you don't set the resource model it will use the name of the model.

    public function _construct()
    {
        $this->_init('colin_database/results');
    }


# 2. Load by Model

    $model = Mage::getModel('colin_database/results')->load(1);

This loads a table with using the main field ('id').

This calls the resource model ->load() which accepts a model, table and field in the class *Mage_Core_Model_Resource_Db_Abstract*
The resource model is set with the *_init* method *_init('colin_database/results', 'id')*.

This then gets the ReadAdapter **Magento_Db_Adapter_Pdo_Mysql** and queries the database with *fetchRow*.


You can also set a second parameter instead of the main field e.g.

    $model = Mage::getModel('colin_database/results')
        ->load(3, 'home');
    $model = Mage::getModel('catalog/product')
        ->load('my-sku', 'sku');


# 3. Load by Collection


You can load products by Collection

    $model = Mage::getModel('colin_database/results')->getCollection();
    $model = Mage::getModel('colin_database/results')->getResourceCollection();

This will load all results. It uses the resource model set in *_init* to get the collection.
You can also filter, sort and group results. This will be covered in part 7 of this chapter.


# 4. Save by Model

Example:

      $data = array(
          'home' => rand(0, 5),
          'away' => rand(0, 5),
      );

      $model = Mage::getModel('colin_database/results');
      $model->setData($data)->save();
      var_dump($model->getId());

This saves a row. This calls the method save in the abstract class *Mage_Core_Model_Abstract* which then calls the Resource Model save method in the abstract class *Mage_Core_Model_Resource_Db_Abstract*.

This calls the write adapter *Magento_Db_Adapter_Pdo_Mysql* to save the data.

It also calls 2 methods *_beforeSave()* and *_afterSave()* before and after a save.

The events are covered in the next chapter.
