# Identify how catalog price rules are implemented in Magento:

# 1. Overview

There are 2 types of price rules in Magento:

- Catalog Price Rules
- Shopping Cart Rules

Product Price rules are applied to the product and while the shopping cart rule will be applied to the cart.
Shopping Cart Rules will be covered in the next Chapter.


# 2. Structure

Catalog Price Rules can be broken into 3 parts and these are all stored in the **catalogrule** table.


## 2.1. Information

- Name
- Status
- Websites - Multiselect of websites the rule applies to
- Customer Groups - Multiselect of customer groups the rule applies to
- From & To Date
- Priority - The priority of when the rule is applied. Important if another catalog rule sets to stop processing rules.


## 2.2. Conditions

Conditions are serialized and are used to determine whether a product is to apply the discount providing they have the valid credentials listed above.

So a rule can have multiple conditions and also use the following to set the conditon.

1. Category
2. Attribute set
3. Attribute

**Note:** An attribute must set "Use for Promo Rule Conditions" to "Yes".

These can use the following filters to evaluate whether the discount can be applied:

- is
- is not
- greater than
- equals or greater than
- equals or less than
- greater than
- less than
- contains
- does not contain
- is one of
- is not one of


## 2.3. Actions/Pricing

The price is then determined by the following:

**Apply**

There are 4 types:

1. By Percentage of the Original Price
2. By Fixed Amount
3. To Percentage of the Original Price
4. To Fixed Amount

**Discount Amount**

The amount e.g. 50 would be either percentage or price.

**Enable Discount to Subproducts**

If applying to a grouped, configurable or bundle product.

**Stop Further Rules Processing**

If this is set to yes then it will stop anymore discounts being added.

**Important:** If this is set to yes it does not stop shopping cart discounts being applied as they are stored in different tables.


# 3. How it works

## 3.1. Table Structure

So when rules are applied and saved they are stored in the following tables.
**Note:** This does not use EAV.

1. **catalogrule** - Stores each rule
2. **catalogrule_customer_group** - Stores the rule id and customer group id
3. **catalogrule_group_website** - Stores the rule id and website id
4. **catalogrule_product** - Stores the product and type of discount when rules are applied.
4. **catalogrule_product_price** - Stores the actual discount for each product for each website.


## 3.2. How Discounts are applied

So when "Apply Rules" is clicked or the product prices are reindexed the catalogrule_product and catalogrule_product_price tables are updated in **Mage_CatalogRule_Model_Rule->applyAll()**

The observers for indexing are added in the config:


    <global>
        <events>
            <prepare_catalog_product_price_index_table>
                <observers>
                    <catalogrule>
                        <class>catalogrule/observer</class>
                        <method>prepareCatalogProductPriceIndexTable</method>
                    </catalogrule>
                </observers>
            </prepare_catalog_product_price_index_table>
            <catalog_product_type_configurable_price>
                <observers>
                    <catalogrule>
                        <class>catalogrule/observer</class>
                        <method>catalogProductTypeConfigurablePrice</method>
                    </catalogrule>
                </observers>
            </catalog_product_type_configurable_price>
        </events>



This in turn goes through each product and checks the conditions and saves the discounted price for each product and each websites in the **catalogrule_product_price** table.

It then overrides the product and collection prices using 2 observers:


    <frontend>
        <events>
            <catalog_product_get_final_price>
                <observers>
                    <catalogrule>
                        <class>catalogrule/observer</class>
                        <method>processFrontFinalPrice</method>
                    </catalogrule>
                </observers>
            </catalog_product_get_final_price>
            <prepare_catalog_product_collection_prices>
                <observers>
                    <catalogrule>
                        <class>catalogrule/observer</class>
                        <method>prepareCatalogProductCollectionPrices</method>
                    </catalogrule>
                </observers>
            </prepare_catalog_product_collection_prices>
        </events>

So in **Mage_CatalogRule_Model_Observer** is where also the discounts are checked and returned.

# 3. Further Reading

- [http://www.divisionlab.com/solvingmagento/magento-catalog-price-rules/](http://www.divisionlab.com/solvingmagento/magento-catalog-price-rules/)

- [http://goweb.vn/kien-thuc-web-vi/thiet-ke-web/77identify-how-catalog-price-rules-are-implemented-in-magent...-966.html](http://goweb.vn/kien-thuc-web-vi/thiet-ke-web/77identify-how-catalog-price-rules-are-implemented-in-magent...-966.html)
