# Describe how to implement the interface of attribute frontend, source, and backend models


# 1. Frontend

So lets say for the content attribute we want to add a method called $this->getExcerpt() which got 150 characters we would do the following


# 1.1. Update Attribute in Upgrade Script


      $this->startSetup();
      $helper = Mage::helper("core");
      // Entity Type Code, Attribute Code, Attribute, Value
      $this->updateAttribute("colin_eav_blog", "content", "frontend_model", "colin_eav/attribute_frontend_content");
      $this->endSetup();


# 1.2. Frontend Class

The frontend class must extend from **Mage_Eav_Model_Entity_Attribute_Frontend_Abstract**

    class Colin_EAV_Model_Attribute_Frontend_Content extends Mage_Eav_Model_Entity_Attribute_Frontend_Abstract
    {

        public function getExcerpt(Varien_Object $object, $length = 150)
        {
            return substr($this->getValue($object), 0, (int)$length);
        }

    }


# 1.3. Get Frontend Model


      $blog = Mage::getModel("colin_eav/blog")->load(1);
      echo Mage::getSingleton('eav/config')
          ->getAttribute("colin_eav_blog", 'content')
          ->getFrontend()
          ->getExcerpt($blog, 10);


# 2. Source Model

These need a method of *toOptionArray()* which return key value.

    public function getOptionArray()
    {
        return array(
            self::STATUS_ENABLED    => Mage::helper('catalog')->__('Enabled'),
            self::STATUS_DISABLED   => Mage::helper('catalog')->__('Disabled')
        );
    }

# 3. Backend Model

Backend Models extend from *Mage_Eav_Model_Entity_Attribute_Backend_Abstract* class.

**Information taken from http://www.divisionlab.com/solvingmagento/magento-eav-system/**


### getTable()
Returns the table name (or, more precisely, configuration node pointing to the table name), which stores the attributes data. Think of “skinny” attribute-value tables, for example, customer_entity_varchar, or catalog_product_entity_decimal.


### isStatic()

Tells if the attribute is static. Static is the default value for attribute field backend_type. Static attribute values are stored in the main entity table (i.e., catalog_product_entity or customer_entity) and not in the “skinny” EAV attribute-value tables.


### getType()
Returns the attribute backend type. They can be varchar, static, int, text, decimal, or datetime. The type defines, in which “skinny” table the EAV entity saves the value of its attributes. The columns of a “skinny” table are: entity_id (references the entity), entity_type_id (references to the ID of the entity’s type: customer, catalog_product etc), attribute_id (pointing to the attribute whose value it is), value (in format corresponding to the attribute’s type: int, decimal, datetime etc). In a case of a multi-store environment where entities can have different values for the same attribute, the store_id column can be used.

### getEntityIdField()
Returns the name of a column in EAV attribute tables, where entity_ids are stored. Default name for such column is entity_id; but custom naming is possible – and that is why this function exists.

### setValueId($valueId)
Sets the ID of a row containing the entity attribute data.

### getValueId()
Returns the ID of a row containing the entity attribute data.

### getEntityValueId($entity)

Entity values can be stored in an attribute backend data model instance. They are packed into a protected field as an array, where keys are entity_ids, and values are the IDs of the rows in the skinny table. This function retrieves the data row ID for the given entity.

### setEntityValueId($entity, $valueId)

Sets the ID of a row containing the attribute data for the given entity.
The following functions implement custom data manipulation for attribute values of the $object variable. The latter can be a customer, customer address, product, or category object


### Load/Save Methods

1. afterLoad($object) – processes object attribute data after the object is loaded.
2. beforeSave($object) – prepares attribute data before saving the object into the database.
3. afterSave($object) – processes attribute data after the object is saved.
4. beforeDelete($object) – performs operations on attribute data before the object is deleted.
5. afterDelete($object) – processes attribute data (deletes it, in most imaginable cases) after the parent object is deleted.


# 4. Questions

## Which methods have to be implemented in a custom source model (or frontend model or backend model)?

1. toOptionArray for Admin
2. getAllOptions for Frontend

## Can adminhtml system configuration source models also be used for EAV attributes?

See above.

## What is the default frontend model (and source and backend model) for EAV attributes?

Mage_Eav_Model_Entity_Attribute_Frontend_Default

## Does every attribute use a source model?
No.

## Which classes and methods are related to updating the EAV attribute values in the flat catalog tables?

    Mage::getResourceModel('eav/entity_setup)->updateAttribute()
    Mage::getResourceModel('eav/entity_setup)->addAttribute()

## What factors allow for attributes to be added to flat catalog tables?

Source Model

## How are store-scoped entity attribute values stored when catalog flat storage is enabled for that entity type?

catalog_category_flat_store_id

## Which frontend, source, and backend models are available in a stock Magento installation?

## How do multi-lingual options for attributes work in Magento?

store_id

## How do you get a list of all options for an attribute for a specified store view in addition to the admin scope?

    Mage::getModel('eav/entity_attribute')->load({id})->getSource()->getAllOptions()
