## 1. Under which circumstances are setup scripts executed?

- Page is not cached
- Version number has changed

## 2. What is the difference between the different classes used to execute setup scripts?

1. Non EAV/Flat: Mage_Core_Model_Resource_Setup
2. EAV: Mage_Eav_Model_Entity_Setup

## 3. Which is the base setup class for flat table entities, and which one the base for EAV entities?

1. Non EAV/Flat: Mage_Core_Model_Resource_Setup
2. EAV: Mage_Eav_Model_Entity_Setup

## 4. Which methods are generally available in setup scripts to manipulate database tables and indexes?

- addColumn()
- dropColumn()
- changeColumn()
- modifyColumn()
- dropTemporaryTable()
- truncateTable()
- isTableExists()
- showTableStatus()
- describeTable()
- createTableByDdl()
- modifyColumnByDdl()
- renameTable()
- tableColumnExists()
- addForeignKey()
- dropForeignKey()
- getForeignKeys()
- insertOnDuplicate()
- insertMultiple()
- insertArray()

## 5. What is the difference between addAttribute() and updateAttribute() in EAV setup scripts?

– addAttribute: if id is existed then updateAttributes was called otherwise it will insert new attribute and attribute options.
– updateAttributes: Update Attribute data and Attribute additional data.

## 6. How can you implement a rollback in Magento?

Change the version number and the following part is called in Mage_Core_Model_Resource_Setup->applyUpdates()

    if ($dbVer !== false) {
         $status = version_compare($configVer, $dbVer);
         switch ($status) {
            case self::VERSION_COMPARE_LOWER:
                $this->\_rollbackResourceDb($configVer, $dbVer);
                break;
         }
     }
